The story of DRiP’s\
In 1996 Jon Yewdell started to describe the role of non-canonical translation products in immunology.[1] The authors coined the term Defective Ribosomal initiation Product or DriP’s and posed the question “Are DRiP’s a major source of antigenic peptides for Major Histocompatibility Class I molecules?” 
The term DRiPs was used to describe a source of nascent polypeptides, highly unstable in nature exhibiting half-lives in the order of minutes and capable of producing MHC-I antigenic peptides. Such peptides are preferentially degraded due to their instability and biogenesis—including alterations in translation, ribosomal modifications and post-translational mechanisms including their rapid degradation and channeling.[2] 


Ribosomal initiation is the first step in the process of protein synthesis, and involves the binding of ribosomes to messenger RNA (mRNA) molecules, which contain the instructions for building proteins. Defective ribosomal initiation products are proteins that are synthesized incorrectly due to problems with the ribosomal initiation process. Defective ribosomal initiation products can be caused by a variety of factors, including mutations in the mRNA or ribosomal RNA (rRNA), defects in the ribosomal proteins, or the presence of inhibitory factors that interfere with the ribosomal initiation process. These defects can lead to the synthesis of abnormal proteins that are either non-functional or have reduced function, which can have a variety of negative effects on cellular function. There is a growing body of research on defective ribosomal initiation products and their potential roles in various diseases. For example, defects in ribosomal initiation have been linked to neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease, as well as cancer and other diseases. Yewdell et al. proposed that especially in immunological processing of peptides these DRiPs  may be generated in the cytosol and/or nucleus via a mechanism that enables bypassing the law of mass action for conversion of the degradome to the immunopeptidome. 
The DRiP hypothesis was proposed to explain kinetic observations that conflicted with the ruling concept that class I peptide ligands derive from the regular turnover of source proteins according the canonical routes of proteasome and endoplasmatic reticulum mediated antigen presentation. The consequence of a biased immunopeptidome is that the expression level of a protein or peptide is not necessarily the key variable to generate a immunopeptide. This  becomes relevant when one realizes the immune system needs to be able to detect and respond to foreign peptides in a sea of common household proteins and peptides present in the body. 


1. 	Yewdell, J.W., Antón, L.C., Bennink, J.R.: Defective ribosomal products (DRiPs): a major source of antigenic peptides for MHC class I molecules? J. Immunol. 157, 1823–6 (1996)
2. 	Wei, J., Yewdell, J.W.: Immunoribosomes: Where’s there’s fire, there’s fire. Mol. Immunol. 113, 38–42 (2019). https://doi.org/10.1016/j.molimm.2017.12.026




