The story of InsDRIP
In 2017 Kracht et al. identified in an alternative open reading frame of the insulin gene neoepitopes which are recognized by T cells involved in selectively attacking beta cells.5 The authors presented evidence these neoepitopes  are involved in the development of type 1 diabetes. It was proposed that translational errors represent a major potential source of antigenic peptides to which central immune tolerance is lacking. Within the human insulin mRNA, two putative downstream translation initiation sites with strong Kozak consensus sequences are located at positions 72 and 341. Leaky ribosome scanning for translation initiation at a downstream AUG can generate out-of-frame translation products.
The authors propose in the nature article that one of this alternative reading frames creates a nonsense peptide which has been referred to as “insDRiP”. The authors present this as the first evidence of a naturally processed and presented immunogenic epitope, derived from an alternative open reading frame in the Insulin gene which is shown to result in the destruction of human beta cells by cytotoxic CD8+ T cells specifically targeted towards this “insDRiP” neoepitope. The authors claim this neoantigen can be therapeutically suppressed by Crispr-cas based gene therapeutic approaches and patented the sequence.  
Up till now the follow up on the discovery of InsDRiP did not yet the therapeutic arena but the validation of the role of DRiP’s and alternative open reading expression is laying the fundaments for a completely new type of disease mechanism(CHECK this) that may have broad implications for a better understanding of autoimmune diseases. One of the attractive elements of the proposed mechanism of  “insDRiP” is that the authors did not require the  elusive term “immunoribosomes” but rather explain the insDRiP expression as a ribosomal “crowding effect” resulting in a neoepitope with devastating effects is some patients.


